 Hello everyone and welcome back to my channel. We talk about interior design tips and inspiration. Today we are on another design style series video talking all about Mediterranean interiors. If this is the first video that you are watching of this series, we go over background information on each interior design style. Some key elements on how you can identify the style. Three ways on how you can bring the style into your home right now. And also suggest a few other styles that are similar in case you want to explore some other ideas. With that being said, let's go ahead and jump on into the background of Mediterranean interiors. We are discussing another European inspired interior today. We're really pulling inspiration from Italy, from Greece, from Spain. Anywhere in that kind of southern region of Europe right above the Mediterranean Sea. This is a pretty culturally rich interior design style. And there's a lot of inspiration that come up from this sea obviously because they're right on the Mediterranean. But also these smaller villages that you often run into in this area of the world. Overall, the aesthetic of this design style is pretty simple but also very romantic. There is an emphasis on indoor outdoor living in this region of the world because the weather is typically so nice all the time. And so you'll see a lot of nature being pulled into this design style. One thing I do want to mention though, each region in this kind of Mediterranean area does have their own distinct elements that they like to incorporate into their interior design styles. So this is more just a broad overview of the Mediterranean style. You will see some variation depending on place to place and different cultures within that Mediterranean area. Let's go ahead and move on to key elements. Architectural elements are very key in this interior design style. You'll see a lot of archways and arches. You'll see beams. You'll see columns. You'll often see some sort of interior balcony type of situation happening. A lot of fun architectural elements that you wouldn't necessarily see all the time. But they really are highlighted in this design style. As far as furniture for Mediterranean design, there is kind of a range to their simple and functional one end and on the other there's more of a formal. So furniture styles can be quite diverse. A lot of times you'll see that they have some rustic influences with the finish of the material. Oftentimes you will see some ornate detailing and richer wood tones brought into the furniture. Some fabric materials that you may see in furniture are things like linen, cotton, but even going a little bit more traditional and warm with velvet. Floral patterns are also something that you might run into with furniture in this design style. As far as color palettes go for Mediterranean style, there is a very neutral base of this interior. So you'll see a lot of like those creamy type walls, but they're not a fruity color either. So you'll see a lot of these signature terracotta colors, some yellow. Most of the time you will see those warmer tone colors come into this style for that more inviting feeling. You may also see walls finish in a plastered or sand type of texture that is really sand-stretched to this style. It's not always typical to just see straight and drywall. So usually you'll see something that has a little bit more texture to it and something that has a little bit more visual depth. As for windows remins, typically in this design style you're going to see very large windows and they don't want to cover those up too much because they might have a view of the sea or they have them open because they want to encourage a nice breeze. So you'll typically see something a little bit more lightweight. As far as accessories for Mediterranean design style, you'll see some ornate things, but they won't be super cluttered everywhere. So you'll see things that have detail, but they'll be kind of more minimal in the amount of items and cells. We'll just pack a big punch. Anything that's very tactile that has texture to it or anything of that nature goes really well in this design style. There's a lot of history rooted into this design style and because of that, if you have little items or knick-knacks that have some weathered look or look like they're vintage or handmade, those types of elements really bring this space to life and give it that character of Mediterranean space. Now to talk about three different ways on how you can bring Mediterranean into your home. The very first thing that I want to talk about is architectural details. This is such a signature look of this style that it really would be hard to have a builder great home fill Mediterranean. So maybe that's putting in some columns, some archways. A few of those things that we talked about a little bit earlier, I would really try to incorporate as many architectural details as you possibly can. That's really going to give it the more like historical fill of this style. The second area that I would really emphasize is flooring. So having terracotta floor. terracotta flooring is a very signature to this design style. So if you can incorporate something like that into your home, then that is for sure a great way to get this design a style. But also having some patterned tile or something a little bit more decorative in your flooring will also give you a very signature Mediterranean look and even mixing both of those if you have some terracotta and some patterned tile. Having those combined really gives the vibe of Mediterranean. And the last thing that is a little bit more attainable is to just bring in some outdoor influences. So in your accessories and your materials that is reminiscent of the sea or kind of has that lightweight texture or anything in that nature is really going to help bring that Mediterranean style to your home, things that are handcrafted. Using your accessories to get the Mediterranean look is going to be very beneficial. Now to talk about a few similar styles. So last week we talked about French country interiors. There is a lot of overlap here. So I would definitely go check out that video if you haven't already. Another video that we made that has some similar elements is not so traditional a little bit more casual and approachable is going to be bowho. There's a lot of similar color ideas here and a little bit more of that free spiritedness. And if you want to stick around for next week's video, we're going to be talking about south western design, which is not necessarily European inspired. It's more from here in the states inspired by desert. So if that sounds interesting at all to you, I would stick around for that. There's similar colors there, but a little bit more of a desert influence than a sea influence. But I think that the color paltes are similar, a lot of the handcrafted elements and things like that. I think that weirdly enough that those overlap and have a lot in common. That is everything that I have for today's video. Thank you so much for watching. I hope you were able to learn something new about Mediterranean design style. Thank you so much for joining me. And I hope to catch you next week when we talk about south western materials. Bye.